DIFI_Validator/readme.md, before:

<strong><em>DIFI</em></strong>

**DIFI** verification to aid with interoperability of DIFI sources and sinks.

References:  
[DIFI Consortium](https://dificonsortium.org/)  

01 SEPTEMBER 2021
[IEEE difi-announcement](https://ieee-isto.org/press-releases/difi-announcement/)

Digital signal processing (DSP) revolutionized acquisition and reproduction of analog data.  One format for signal data is known as 'digital radio' data.  The analog sources often convey radio (and intermediate) frequency data. That data is often required therefore corresponding metadata should also be communicated.  VITA defines the packet format for the digital transmission. The VITA 49.2 framework is flexible and there are many options for packing digital IF data over multiple transports. This flexibility requires that an additional layer of class documentation be provided in order to describe a specific implementation.  DIFI leverages the flexibility of VITA to specify a subset of the CIF and CIF 0 and simplifies the transport to UDP.


This **DIFI** standard provides two independent data flows:   
1. RF input to network output (RF-to-IP) 
1. Network input to RF output (IP-to-RF)

Both VITA and **DIFI** describe the data plane interface with the ability to transmit and receive digitized IF data and corresponding metadata over standard IP networks. DIFI is a specific framework implementation that is meant to interface in alignment with with the VITA 49.2 framework.

Knowledge of related documents is helpful.
___

- VITA Radio Transport (VRT) Standard, VITA-49.0 – 2015
- VITA Radio Transport (VRT) Standard, VITA-49.2 – 2017



Note: This application can be used as a stand-alone application that decodes and verifies whether packets in a packet stream are in compliance with the DIFI 1.0 standard, and can prepare and send DIFI compliant packets for testing purposes. It is also import-able into your own scripts/applications that can be customized to provide additional functionality not covered in this application. i.e. you can re-use the packet classes and validation functions stand-alone, completely independent of this application, for higher throughput scenario's.

- drx.py - receiver that decodes packets (note that the REST API/server code is in docker/input/app.py)
- dcs.py - sends 'Standard Context' packet
- dvs.py - sends 'Version Context' packet
- dds.py - sends 'Data' packet

all fields in all send packets are user-configurable\changeable into anything that fits application's needs, i.e. there's an arg for every field in the packet

- import drx - to decode packets in byte stream into instances of DifiStandardContextPacket, DifiVersionContextPacket, and DifiDataPacket classes that can be serialized to JSON

- import dcs - to send 'Standard Context' packet
- import dvs - to send 'Version Context' packet
- import dds - to send 'Data' packet


Below are several quick hint examples for reference purposes:

1) To send a 'Version Context Packet' (that's DIFI compliant illustrating  the fields in the packets as args)

```Python
import dvs
try:
    dvs.DESTINATION_IP = "10.1.1.1"   #it will send this version packet to this destination server address
    dvs.DESTINATION_PORT = 4991
    dvs.STREAM_ID = 1
    dvs.FIELDS["--pkt-type"] = "5"
    dvs.FIELDS["--clsid"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--rsvd"] = "0"
    dvs.FIELDS["--tsm"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--tsi"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--tsf"] = "2"
    dvs.FIELDS["--seqnum"] = "0"
    dvs.FIELDS["--pkt-size"] = "000b"
    dvs.FIELDS["--oui"] = "0012A2"
    dvs.FIELDS["--icc"] = "0001"
    dvs.FIELDS["--pcc"] = "0004"
    dvs.FIELDS["--integer-seconds-ts"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--fractional-seconds-ts"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--cif0"] = "80000002"
    dvs.FIELDS["--cif1"] = "0000000C"
    dvs.FIELDS["--v49-spec-version"] = "00000004"
    dvs.FIELDS["--year"] = "22"
    dvs.FIELDS["--day"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--revision"] = "0"
    dvs.FIELDS["--type"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--icd-version"] = "0"
    dvs.send_difi_compliant_version_context_packet()
except Exception as e:
    print(e)

```

(note:  dvs.py --help)   
print usage string which has more detail about each arg for 'Version Context' packet

(note:  dcs.py --help)   
print usage string which has more detail about each arg for 'Standard Context' packet

(note:  dds.py --help)   
print usage string which has more detail about each arg for 'Data' packet


2) To serialize/decode stream of bytes into DifiVersionContextPacket class instance, and then output instance as JSON string:
(note: use this when you're sure the byte stream contains a 'Version Context' packet inside)

```Python
import drx
import io
try:
    drx.DEBUG = False
    drx.VERBOSE = False

    b = bytearray(b'<put full packet byte data here>')
    stream = io.BytesIO(b)

    pkt = drx.DifiVersionContextPacket(stream)  #simply feed the byte stream into constructor, that's it.
    print(pkt)
    print(pkt.to_json())
    print(pkt.to_json(hex_values=True))

except drx.NoncompliantDifiPacket as e:
    print("error: ", e.message)
    print("--> not DIFI compliant, packet not decoded:\r\n%s" % e.difi_info.to_json())
except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)

```


3) To serialize/decode stream of bytes into DifiVersionContextPacket class instance, and then output instance as JSON string:
(note: use this when you're not sure which type of DIFI packet the byte stream contains inside, it's using the same main decode function this application uses internally)

```Python

import drx
try:
    drx.DEBUG = False
    drx.VERBOSE = False

    stream = io.BytesIO()
    b = bytearray(b'<put full packet byte data here>')
    stream.write(b)
    stream.seek(0)

    pkt = drx.decode_difi_vrt_packet(stream)  #simply feed the byte stream into the main decode function, that's it.
    print(type(pkt).__name__)
    print(pkt)
    print(pkt.to_json())

except drx.NoncompliantDifiPacket as e:
    print("error: ", e.message)
    print("--> not DIFI compliant, packet not decoded:\r\n%s" % e.difi_info.to_json())
except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)

```

4) To check if header in packet is DIFI compliant:

```Python
import drx
try:
    pkt = drx.DifiVersionContextPacket
    
    if pkt.is_difi10_version_context_packet_header(pkt,
        packet_type=drx.DIFI_VERSION_FLOW_SIGNAL_CONTEXT,
        class_id=drx.DIFI_CLASSID,
        rsvd=drx.DIFI_RESERVED,
        tsm=drx.DIFI_TSM_GENERAL_TIMING,
        tsf=drx.DIFI_TSF_REALTIME_PICOSECONDS,
        packet_size=drx.DIFI_VERSION_FLOW_SIGNAL_CONTEXT_SIZE) is True:

        print("valid...")
    else:
        print("not valid...")

except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)
```

5) To check if packet contents are DIFI compliant (i.e. packet fields after the header):
```Python
import drx
try:
    pkt = drx.DifiVersionContextPacket
    
    if pkt.is_difi10_version_context_packet(pkt,
        icc=drx.DIFI_INFORMATION_CLASS_CODE_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        pcc=drx.DIFI_PACKET_CLASS_CODE_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        cif0=drx.DIFI_CONTEXT_INDICATOR_FIELD_0_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        cif1=drx.DIFI_CONTEXT_INDICATOR_FIELD_1_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        v49_spec=drx.DIFI_V49_SPEC_VERSION_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT) is True:

        print("valid...")
    else:
        print("not valid...")

except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)
```



Note: This application starts a UDP socket server that listens for DIFI packets from a device, and starts a Flask server that listens for HTTP requests for API endpoints and GUI. There are three server deployment options for Flask when building the Docker container:

1. Using Flask's built-in dev server, this is the simplest but not meant for production
2. Using a uWSGI server that runs the Flask app
3. Using a NGINX server proxying to the uWSGI server hosting flask app

```bash
[DEV]
sudo docker build --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=dev difi_one
```

(note: will be development flask server, listening on port 5000)

```bash
[PROD] (proxy server)
sudo docker build --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=prod difi_one
```

(note: will be uwsgi server hosting flask app, listening on port 5000)

with proxy server:
```bash
sudo docker build --build-arg USER=nginx --build-arg GROUP=nginx --build-arg UID=2000 --build-arg GID=2000 --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=prod difi_one
```

(note: will be nginx server proxying to uwsgi server hosting flask app, listening on port configured in nginx conf server block like port 80)

```
    example nginx server block:
    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name 10.1.1.1;

            client_max_body_size 64M;
            charset utf-8;
            error_log /etc/nginx/error.log;
            access_log /etc/nginx/access.log;

            location / {
                include proxy_params;
                proxy_pass http://10.1.1.1:5000;  #url to uwsgi/flask server
            }
    }
```

[PROD-GATEWAY] (application-gateway)
```bash
sudo docker build --build-arg USER=nginx --build-arg GROUP=nginx --build-arg UID=2000 --build-arg GID=2000 --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -v /tmp:/tmp -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=prod-gateway difi_one
```

(note: will be nginx server calling through application gateway unix domain socket to uwsgi server hosting flask app, listening on port configured in nginx conf server block like port 80)

```
    example nginx server block:
    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name 10.1.1.1;

            client_max_body_size 64M;
            charset utf-8;
            error_log /etc/nginx/error.log;
            access_log /etc/nginx/access.log;

            location / {
                include uwsgi_params;
                uwsgi_pass unix:/tmp/difi.sock;  #path to unix socket
            }
    }
```

Commit message:

added docker run cmd that actually works

DIFI_Validator/readme.md, after:

<strong><em>DIFI</em></strong>

**DIFI** verification to aid with interoperability of DIFI sources and sinks.

References:  
[DIFI Consortium](https://dificonsortium.org/)  

01 SEPTEMBER 2021
[IEEE difi-announcement](https://ieee-isto.org/press-releases/difi-announcement/)

Digital signal processing (DSP) revolutionized acquisition and reproduction of analog data.  One format for signal data is known as 'digital radio' data.  The analog sources often convey radio (and intermediate) frequency data. That data is often required therefore corresponding metadata should also be communicated.  VITA defines the packet format for the digital transmission. The VITA 49.2 framework is flexible and there are many options for packing digital IF data over multiple transports. This flexibility requires that an additional layer of class documentation be provided in order to describe a specific implementation.  DIFI leverages the flexibility of VITA to specify a subset of the CIF and CIF 0 and simplifies the transport to UDP.


This **DIFI** standard provides two independent data flows:   
1. RF input to network output (RF-to-IP) 
1. Network input to RF output (IP-to-RF)

Both VITA and **DIFI** describe the data plane interface with the ability to transmit and receive digitized IF data and corresponding metadata over standard IP networks. DIFI is a specific framework implementation that is meant to interface in alignment with with the VITA 49.2 framework.

Knowledge of related documents is helpful.
___

- VITA Radio Transport (VRT) Standard, VITA-49.0 – 2015
- VITA Radio Transport (VRT) Standard, VITA-49.2 – 2017



Note: This application can be used as a stand-alone application that decodes and verifies whether packets in a packet stream are in compliance with the DIFI 1.0 standard, and can prepare and send DIFI compliant packets for testing purposes. It is also import-able into your own scripts/applications that can be customized to provide additional functionality not covered in this application. i.e. you can re-use the packet classes and validation functions stand-alone, completely independent of this application, for higher throughput scenario's.

- drx.py - receiver that decodes packets (note that the REST API/server code is in docker/input/app.py)
- dcs.py - sends 'Standard Context' packet
- dvs.py - sends 'Version Context' packet
- dds.py - sends 'Data' packet

all fields in all send packets are user-configurable\changeable into anything that fits application's needs, i.e. there's an arg for every field in the packet

- import drx - to decode packets in byte stream into instances of DifiStandardContextPacket, DifiVersionContextPacket, and DifiDataPacket classes that can be serialized to JSON

- import dcs - to send 'Standard Context' packet
- import dvs - to send 'Version Context' packet
- import dds - to send 'Data' packet

To run the containerized app using Docker,

```
cd DIFI-Certification/DIFI_Validator
docker build --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi .
docker run -it -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -p 5000:5000 -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=dev difi
```

and open a browser on the host machine to http://127.0.0.1:5000/, and you should see the following page:

![](../images/difi_validator.png)

Below are several quick hint examples for reference purposes:

1) To send a 'Version Context Packet' (that's DIFI compliant illustrating  the fields in the packets as args)

```Python
import dvs
try:
    dvs.DESTINATION_IP = "10.1.1.1"   #it will send this version packet to this destination server address
    dvs.DESTINATION_PORT = 4991
    dvs.STREAM_ID = 1
    dvs.FIELDS["--pkt-type"] = "5"
    dvs.FIELDS["--clsid"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--rsvd"] = "0"
    dvs.FIELDS["--tsm"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--tsi"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--tsf"] = "2"
    dvs.FIELDS["--seqnum"] = "0"
    dvs.FIELDS["--pkt-size"] = "000b"
    dvs.FIELDS["--oui"] = "0012A2"
    dvs.FIELDS["--icc"] = "0001"
    dvs.FIELDS["--pcc"] = "0004"
    dvs.FIELDS["--integer-seconds-ts"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--fractional-seconds-ts"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--cif0"] = "80000002"
    dvs.FIELDS["--cif1"] = "0000000C"
    dvs.FIELDS["--v49-spec-version"] = "00000004"
    dvs.FIELDS["--year"] = "22"
    dvs.FIELDS["--day"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--revision"] = "0"
    dvs.FIELDS["--type"] = "1"
    dvs.FIELDS["--icd-version"] = "0"
    dvs.send_difi_compliant_version_context_packet()
except Exception as e:
    print(e)

```

(note:  dvs.py --help)   
print usage string which has more detail about each arg for 'Version Context' packet

(note:  dcs.py --help)   
print usage string which has more detail about each arg for 'Standard Context' packet

(note:  dds.py --help)   
print usage string which has more detail about each arg for 'Data' packet


2) To serialize/decode stream of bytes into DifiVersionContextPacket class instance, and then output instance as JSON string:
(note: use this when you're sure the byte stream contains a 'Version Context' packet inside)

```Python
import drx
import io
try:
    drx.DEBUG = False
    drx.VERBOSE = False

    b = bytearray(b'<put full packet byte data here>')
    stream = io.BytesIO(b)

    pkt = drx.DifiVersionContextPacket(stream)  #simply feed the byte stream into constructor, that's it.
    print(pkt)
    print(pkt.to_json())
    print(pkt.to_json(hex_values=True))

except drx.NoncompliantDifiPacket as e:
    print("error: ", e.message)
    print("--> not DIFI compliant, packet not decoded:\r\n%s" % e.difi_info.to_json())
except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)

```


3) To serialize/decode stream of bytes into DifiVersionContextPacket class instance, and then output instance as JSON string:
(note: use this when you're not sure which type of DIFI packet the byte stream contains inside, it's using the same main decode function this application uses internally)

```Python

import drx
try:
    drx.DEBUG = False
    drx.VERBOSE = False

    stream = io.BytesIO()
    b = bytearray(b'<put full packet byte data here>')
    stream.write(b)
    stream.seek(0)

    pkt = drx.decode_difi_vrt_packet(stream)  #simply feed the byte stream into the main decode function, that's it.
    print(type(pkt).__name__)
    print(pkt)
    print(pkt.to_json())

except drx.NoncompliantDifiPacket as e:
    print("error: ", e.message)
    print("--> not DIFI compliant, packet not decoded:\r\n%s" % e.difi_info.to_json())
except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)

```

4) To check if header in packet is DIFI compliant:

```Python
import drx
try:
    pkt = drx.DifiVersionContextPacket
    
    if pkt.is_difi10_version_context_packet_header(pkt,
        packet_type=drx.DIFI_VERSION_FLOW_SIGNAL_CONTEXT,
        class_id=drx.DIFI_CLASSID,
        rsvd=drx.DIFI_RESERVED,
        tsm=drx.DIFI_TSM_GENERAL_TIMING,
        tsf=drx.DIFI_TSF_REALTIME_PICOSECONDS,
        packet_size=drx.DIFI_VERSION_FLOW_SIGNAL_CONTEXT_SIZE) is True:

        print("valid...")
    else:
        print("not valid...")

except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)
```

5) To check if packet contents are DIFI compliant (i.e. packet fields after the header):
```Python
import drx
try:
    pkt = drx.DifiVersionContextPacket
    
    if pkt.is_difi10_version_context_packet(pkt,
        icc=drx.DIFI_INFORMATION_CLASS_CODE_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        pcc=drx.DIFI_PACKET_CLASS_CODE_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        cif0=drx.DIFI_CONTEXT_INDICATOR_FIELD_0_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        cif1=drx.DIFI_CONTEXT_INDICATOR_FIELD_1_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT,
        v49_spec=drx.DIFI_V49_SPEC_VERSION_VERSION_FLOW_CONTEXT) is True:

        print("valid...")
    else:
        print("not valid...")

except Exception as e:
    print("error: ", e)
```



Note: This application starts a UDP socket server that listens for DIFI packets from a device, and starts a Flask server that listens for HTTP requests for API endpoints and GUI. There are three server deployment options for Flask when building the Docker container:

1. Using Flask's built-in dev server, this is the simplest but not meant for production
2. Using a uWSGI server that runs the Flask app
3. Using a NGINX server proxying to the uWSGI server hosting flask app

```bash
[DEV]
sudo docker build --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=dev difi_one
```

(note: will be development flask server, listening on port 5000)

```bash
[PROD] (proxy server)
sudo docker build --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=prod difi_one
```

(note: will be uwsgi server hosting flask app, listening on port 5000)

with proxy server:
```bash
sudo docker build --build-arg USER=nginx --build-arg GROUP=nginx --build-arg UID=2000 --build-arg GID=2000 --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=prod difi_one
```

(note: will be nginx server proxying to uwsgi server hosting flask app, listening on port configured in nginx conf server block like port 80)

```
    example nginx server block:
    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name 10.1.1.1;

            client_max_body_size 64M;
            charset utf-8;
            error_log /etc/nginx/error.log;
            access_log /etc/nginx/access.log;

            location / {
                include proxy_params;
                proxy_pass http://10.1.1.1:5000;  #url to uwsgi/flask server
            }
    }
```

[PROD-GATEWAY] (application-gateway)
```bash
sudo docker build --build-arg USER=nginx --build-arg GROUP=nginx --build-arg UID=2000 --build-arg GID=2000 --force-rm -f docker/Dockerfile -t difi_one .
sudo docker run -it --net=host -v /tmp:/tmp -e DIFI_RX_PORT=4991 -e DIFI_RX_MODE=socket -e FLASK_DEPLOY_ENV=prod-gateway difi_one
```

(note: will be nginx server calling through application gateway unix domain socket to uwsgi server hosting flask app, listening on port configured in nginx conf server block like port 80)

```
    example nginx server block:
    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name 10.1.1.1;

            client_max_body_size 64M;
            charset utf-8;
            error_log /etc/nginx/error.log;
            access_log /etc/nginx/access.log;

            location / {
                include uwsgi_params;
                uwsgi_pass unix:/tmp/difi.sock;  #path to unix socket
            }
    }
```
